    After shutting vehicle off:
        inspect tires (for new cracks/holes)
            if a tire has a new crack or hole, put the spare on and replace tire when possible.
        if you hit anything or ran over a curb, inspect under car and see if anything is broken
            if a large plastic sheet is dangling, that's your shield and it needs to be reattached. Recommend mechanic or dealer intervention
            if a metal tube/pole is dangling:
                if it's the dead center of your car and looks like it was supposed to be connected to the rear wheels
                    it's your drivetrain and needs to be replaced. Do not drive.
                if it's a thinner, hollow-looking pole (possibly with oblong protusions)
                    it's your exhaust and should be reattached to the bottom
                if smaller bars near the front (steering) tires appear snapped or disconnected,
                    that's your tie/steering rods. Drive very carefully and get service immediately
                if the drivetrain or rod that runs between any two tires appears bent
                    get service immediately.
        Open hood and
            check for oily/grimy residue or leaks
                if present, how bad is it?
                    class 1 - this is minor signs of residue, and usually not expensive. General rule: fix if you want
                    class 2 - this is when moisture is actively present. General rule: fix within the next month
                    class 3 - this is when liquid is actively beading. General rule: only drive short distances, fix before driving > 2 miles.
                if the leak is around the top of the engine, likely a headgasket leak.
                    In this case, class 1 and 2 should be monitored closely and fixed within the month and week. Do not drive with class 3.
                if the leak is around any of the rubber hoses, it's likely coolant.
                    class rules apply
                if the leak is near the transmission or anywhere on the engine below the head gasket
                    check for visible holes and cracks. If there are holes/cracks, do not drive and get service immediately.
                    class rules apply with no holes/cracks present
    Once vehicle is cold (1+hr later):
        Check fluid levels again. If levels are noticably different/lower, monitor those levels closely. If trend persists across 3 days, recommend service.