



before starting:
        inspect tires (for tread depth, tire pressure, visibly uneven wear, visible cracks/holes, visible metal/missing chunks on surface that makes road contact)
            if tire is unevenly worn
                check tie rods.
                    If they appear to be fine, get an alignment and replace worn tires in the next month.
                    otherwise, replace the tie rods.
            if tire pressure is low but above 10,
                If this is a issue that's been noticed before, service in the next month.
                fill the tire with air.
            across tires for non air pressure:
                if one tire is bad, throw on the spare and recommend servicing that tire within two weeks.
                If more than one is bad, then recommend not driving and service.
            chunks are missing, large holes are present, or tread has less than 1mm of depth, recommend not driving and purchasing new tires
            if you see part of (but not all of) Abe's head, then recommend replacement in the next month
            if something is stuck in the tire, do not remove, but go to nearest tire shop and service tire.
        check brake pads (shove a straw into brakes until you hit the pads, then mark the straw and measure depth)
            subtract .2 inches from measurement, and
                if remaining measurement is less than 1/4th inch, replace soon.
                If remaining is less than 1/8th inch, recommend not driving and replacing immediately.
        get under car and see if anything is broken
            if a large plastic sheet is dangling, that's your heat/debris shield and it needs to be reattached. Recommend mechanic or dealer intervention
            if a metal tube/pole is dangling:
                if it's the dead center of your car and looks like it was supposed to be connected to the rear wheels
                    it's your drivetrain and needs to be replaced. Do not drive.
                if it's a thinner, hollow-looking pole (possibly with oblong protusions)
                    it's your exhaust and should be reattached to the bottom
                if smaller bars near the front (steering) tires appear snapped or disconnected,
                    that's your tie/steering rods. Drive very carefully and get service immediately
                if the drivetrain or rod that runs between any two tires appears bent
                    get service immediately.
        Open hood and
            check fluids 
                if low: fill
                if antifreeze/coolant is low, warn user to wait until engine is cold to fill fluids
            inspect battery connectors
                if they appear to be grimy or corroded, disconnect and clean.
                if severly corroded, replace as soon as possible
            check for oily/grimy residue or leaks
                if present, how bad is it?
                    class 1 - this is minor signs of residue, and usually not expensive. General rule: fix if you want
                    class 2 - this is when moisture is actively present. General rule: fix within the next month
                    class 3 - this is when liquid is actively beading. General rule: only drive short distances, fix before driving > 2 miles.
                if the leak is around the top of the engine, likely a headgasket leak.
                    In this case, class 1 and 2 should be monitored closely and fixed within the month and week. Do not drive with class 3.
                if the leak is around any of the rubber hoses, it's likely coolant.
                    class rules apply
                if the leak is near the transmission or anywhere on the engine below the head gasket
                    check for visible holes and cracks. If there are holes/cracks, do not drive and get service immediately.
                    class rules apply with no holes/cracks present
        finally: start vehicle.
            if vehicle doesn't start, how does it fail to start?
                if the starter chugs for a second:
                    battery may be low, jump the car using a jump kit or cables try again
                    if that doesn't work, fuel pump needs to be replaced.
                if the engine stalls:
                    ensure you are in park (or neutural, for manual transmission)
                    if that doesn't work, the engine may be flooded. Lightly push the gas pedal while trying to start again.
                        if that doesn't work, replace fuel pump
                if the starter makes no noise:
                    Your starter needs to be replaced. To drive it to the nearest mechanic shop, try hitting the starter with a wrench or similar and start again.
                                                        If you do this more than about twice, the starter will destroy the engine.

    While vehicle's running/driving:
        if the engine suddently shuts off:
            you either stalled (shift better if you're in a manual or replace transmission if in a automatic) or your engine needs to be replaced.
        if the car doesn't stay in a straight line
            check tie rods
                if they're bent, you can attempt to straighten them to get home (not recommended), but replace ASAP.
                if not, get an alignment
        if the car is incredibly "bouncy" over bumps:
            Your suspension is too old, replace suspension
        if the car pulls to the left or right while braking:
            flush brake fluid, if that doesn't fix it
            check for (and replace) seized brake cylinders, if none are siezed check and replace brake fluid pump

